player main character the starter character starts with improved state for a type of weapons

Ballistic Bot:

Ballistic Bot – “Impact Core”
Core Mechanic:
Ballistic weapons charge up a “Kinetic Surge” not visable meter based on damage dealt
• Small  blast




Bonus Perk:
might  apply Weakened to enemies for 3 seconds

EM Bot:

EM Bot – “Resonance Cascade”
Core Mechanic:
Each EM hit builds up a Resonance Charge. not visable
At 100%, your next EM shot releases a homing pulse that jumps to nearby enemies.

Bonus Perk:

EM melee hits might hack the robot making it help the player.



the weapon mechanics works as the following:-

Ranged:-


    the first weapon is a ranged one with 2 modifiers one for the type of weapon either ballistic or electromagnatic and the behavior  such as shotgun, rifle, pistol,sniper,rocket launcher and it can be others

    the electromagnatic one doesn't have relaoding but it overheats  it will have 3 behaviors

Pistol – Fast fire, low heat

Sniper – High heat, big damage

Rifle – Balanced output

    this will be better for targeting enemies,  enemies with shields, robots and it will have higher damage

    the ballistic one have relaoding but doesn't overheat it will also have 3 behaviors

Shotgun – Burst + knockback

Rocket Launcher –   explosion area + knockback

LMG – High mag, suppressing fire

    this will be better for enemy crowd controll armored enemies, biological enemies and it will have lower damage

    the other modifier is for an improved state like firerate, damage,relaod,
    it also can improve the damage if the player did a combo with the 2 different weapons categories to force him to balance between the 2 of them

    Chainbreaker Core
Effect: "Ballistic kills grant a 2s window where EM shots crit."

Use Case: Encourages switching after a crowd-clear to pick off stronger enemies.

Recoil Loop
Effect: "Switching weapons within 2s of a kill gives +15% damage on next hit."

Use Case: Classic momentum-chaining playstyle.

Pulse Tap Node
Effect: "EM damage stuns enemies. Switching to Ballistic deals critical damage to stuned enemies."

Use Case: Makes CC setups viable without special weapons.

Shield Link Injector
Effect: "If you hit an EM enemy with Ballistic melee, gain a temporary shield. If you hit a biological enemy with EM, regenerate 5% health."

Use: Reward for countering the right type of enemy with the "wrong" weapon.
Melee:-

    ballistic:-

    it will have higher damage and lower speed

    it will be better with biological enemies

    it is better for finishing an enemy

    effects

    bleed

    knockback

mods:

warhammer

 shockwave ability chance

chainsaw

adrinaline rush chance


    EM:-

    higher speed and lower damage

     it is better for robots

    better for creating an opening

    stun

    energy drain

    futuristic katana

    lighting chain ability chance

    energy whip

    stun range ability


consumables:-

it will be some basic stuff such as:-

battaries (health)

circuits to fix broken mods

gernades

emp

temporary shield


the player should be forced to combine both of the categories by focusing on his weakness in the game

the enemies will be aliens and robots


Shielded Robots – Reflect ballistic damage until stunned with EM

Swarm Aliens – Overwhelm players using slow EM weapons unless cleared with Ballistics

Overcharger Bot – Causes EM weapons to overheat instantly if spammed

Leeching Alien – Regenerates from EM damage unless finished with physical weapons

 “Adaptive Core” Enemies
These special enemies shift resistances over time — e.g.:

Take more EM damage at range, more Ballistic in melee
